---
layout: default
title: "A3: Evaluating arguments"
parent: Assignments
nav_order: 3
due: "Wednesday 2/28, 11:59 pm ET"
submit: https://canvas.mit.edu/courses/25540/assignments/317177
released: true
---

# Assignment 3: Evaluating arguments (1250 words)

{: .summary}
> Taking readings from one class session as a starting point, develop an argument that extends, challenges, or rethinks one or two major concepts from that class session. Evaluate the argument that the author(s) put forth and place that argument in broader historical context.
>
> **Due: {{page.due}}**<br>
> **[&rarr; &nbsp;Submit to Canvas]({{page.submit}})**

In the past two sections in class, we've talked about two overarching themes: infrastructure and political economy, with specific case studies on data centers, undersea cables, and beyond. Taking readings from one class session as a starting point, develop an argument that extends, challenges, or rethinks one or two major concepts from that class session (e.g., information overload, objectivity, digital preservation, technological redlining, surveillance capitalism, etc -- it could even be an extended analysis of concepts in Barbie, if you wanted, since that was a class session on film criticism). Evaluate the argument that the author(s) put forth and respond accordingly: does the methodology match the research question they're trying to answer? Do they overstate their claim, or is it backed by empirical evidence? These are simply a few questions you could ask the reading, but the point of this exercise is to critically examine an argument and to extend, challenge, or rethink the concepts. If you oppose the argument, why is the author wrong (or misguided), and what evidence do you need to support the counter-argument? (If you disagree with the argument, remember to be charitable -- i.e., argue against the best version of that argument rather than a straw man.)

Then, place that argument in a broader historical context: how has this research area or idea changed historically? Evaluate the argument by placing it within the relevant literature, commenting on both the generative nature and limitations of the related work. Use at least four sources, two of which have to be from 2023 or later. Put them in conversation with the original reading you selected, and justify the inclusion of these articles in your literature review and subsequent analysis. You can find sample "A" papers [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SVQAVErHCyBIxAAKe-483gmityvZnEHLMZH699IjPHQ/edit?usp=drive_link).